EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
RSVP Movies is an Indian film production company known for creating multiple blockbuster Indian
films. They intend to become global by producing a film aimed at a worldwide audience by the year
2022. RSVP has engaged SDT Analytics, a data analytics and SQL specialist, to analyse the previously
accessible dataset and generate useful insights in order to take every possible step toward a successful
strike.
SDT Analytics has done an extensive study and the following observations were noted:
1. The dataset included information of movies pertaining to previous three years. It was observed
that the number of movies produced has decreased with each successive year. The number of
movies released in the months of January, March and September are comparatively more than
the rest of the months. March being the highest. The number of movies produced in December
is the least.
2. Thirteen categories of genres were identified and most of the movies belonged to Drama genre
(4285) followed by Comedy and Thriller.
3. Kirket and Love in Kilnery were revealed to be the top movies in terms of average rating.
4. Dream Warrior Pictures and National Theatre Live were found to be the top production house
based on the number of hit movies these production companies have produced.
5. James Mangold, Anthony Russo and Soubin Shahir emerged as the top 3 directors among the top
3 genres.
6. Mammootty and Mohanlal were deemed to be the top actors when median ratings were
examined, but Andrew Garfield and Vijay Raaz were found to be the top actors when average
ratings were considered.
7. Marvel Studios has received the highest number of votes making it the top production house
among all.
8. Based on average ratings, Vijay Sethupathy and Fahadh Faasil ranked as the top two actors in
Indian films.
9. Tappsee Pannu and Kirti Sanon emerged as the top two actresses in Indian films based on average
ratings.
Recommendations
As an expert analyst, SDT Analytics advices RSVP Movies to produce a drama film. Dream Warrior
Pictures or National Theatre Live can be chosen as the production house assuming for a success in the
box office. The film may be directed by James Mangold. Since, RSVP wants to give a regional feel,
Mammootty or Mohanlal may take the lead role of actor and Tapsee Pannu or Kirti Sanon as lead
actress.

